[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
Harvey Bigelsen
is what I call a
rebel with a cause.
Having spent his life swimming
upstream as a medical doctor,
Harvey has not backed
down in his commitment
to bringing subtle therapies
to the public at large.
One of the pioneers in
homeopathic philosophy
in the US, Harvey wrote the
Homeopathic Medical Practice
Act in the state
of Arizona, which
allowed MDs who wanted to
practice outside of the box
to do so without repercussions.
Sadly, this brought
the wrath of the AMA
down on Harvey's
head, which forced
him to leave the country.
Harvey is with us
today to tell us
about the journey
of doctors who wish
to practice beyond the extremely
limited confines of AMA
regulations.
And Harvey, I have to say,
of all the people I've met,
you've been through the ringer.
You've been through it all.
They've taken your license away.
They forced you south of the
border and everything else.
But you always find a way
to still continue growing,
not only your knowledge, your
ability to work with people.
I mean avant garde
therapies-- and here you
are in the United States.
But you can't prick people with
pins or anything or needles.
You can't do that.
You can't touch us.
But you can certainly guide us.
>>HARVEY BIGELSEN: Yes, I can.
Right.
In the United States, I
don't follow their laws,
so they don't like me.
>>REGINA: No.
And the interesting thing
to me in all of this
is you genuinely tried
through writing this act
to bring something
together that would allow
for an open sharing
of this knowledge.
And it did not go the
way you planned at all.
>>BIGELSEN: No, not at all.
I was really naive.
I didn't realize how nasty
they were, how controlling they
were.
It never entered my mind.
I thought we lived
in a free country.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Well, so now you know.
And in certain ways we do.
Others we don't, certainly.
OK, well, what I'd like
you to do-- because to me,
you represent that
journey of all the doctors
who've been through this.
And that's why I
wanted to bring you on.
Because you've been through
so many aspects of what
happens from the moment you
decide to go out of the box.
And first of all, you left
allopathic medicine in 1976.
I remember reading
in your book that you
had in medical school
said, OK, yeah, I
can see we have
to cut this colon.
But how did it become
diseased in the first place?
They didn't like the question.
Let's talk about what you
really get in medical school.
>>BIGELSEN: First year of
medical-- really frustrated
medical school.
The first year of
medical school,
you're taught all the
normals of the body.
Second year, you're
taught all the diseases.
They make no connection between
the first and second year, OK?
And most important,
of course, they
don't teach you how you
get from the second year
back to the first year.
I'd ask questions.
How did you get from a normal
colon to ulcerative colitis?
And they just told me
to read the books, OK?
And the books didn't
tell you anything.
There's nothing in between.
You're either perfectly
healthy or you're severely ill.
And that's it.
And everything is categorized
with no understanding
of how one led to the other.
>>REGINA: And so,
of course-- I mean,
I think most of
the people watching
this know that-- in
terms of wellness,
in terms of nutrition,
that's not really
a large part of the
course of study at all.
It's--what-- a
couple hours maybe?
>>BIGELSEN: Firs oft
all, we didn't even
have nutrition, number one.
Number two, wellness
is never ever taught.
How you get a person
well is never taught.
The only thing that's
taught is what drugs to use
and how to cut a
person open, OK?
You're never taught how to
get a person better, which
is-- it so frustrated
me, by the time
I got out of medical
school, I was
major depressed because it
never told you anything.
I just kept on asking questions.
And I never got an answer.
>>REGINA: Well, the
thing is, because they
went through the
same system, they
weren't trained to
give you an answer.
They didn't have the answers
you were looking for.
>>BIGELSEN: No, yeah, right.
They did not have the answers.
And they were such
a prejudiced group.
I remember the first
day of medical school,
the first word out--
distinguished professor
was a Nobel Prize nominee.
Wrote the word
homeopathy on the board.
And we talked about all these
little funny invisible things
that attack us.
And we thought that was
so funny and stupid.
And we went through
every other profession.
By the end of three hours,
we were the greatest.
We were the kings.
We were the anointed ones.
And that's what
medical school was.
They worked your tail off.
And you were the anointed ones.
>>REGINA: How many of the
people, in your own observation
in this world-- it seems
that most of the people that
go into it do want
to do some good.
They want to be of
help, of service.
And is it simply
ignorance of what else
exists that makes them believe
this is the only way to do it?
Or is there an
allure beyond that?
>>BIGELSEN: They're
going through
and, actually, nowadays,
most people more
are going into it because
you can make a living on it.
Originally, when I
went to medical school,
everyone was there
that was at top, OK?
If you were the top
student in your class,
you were going to be
called a doctor, OK?
There was nothing else.
And they went into it.
And I was stunned at the
very, very bright people
in medical school.
And they didn't ask questions.
They just spouted
out what was given.
And no one asked a question.
And medical school was
such a rigorous training
that by the time you
came out, got out
of school and
everything, you just
wanted to make money and
live happily ever after.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And now pay off
your student loans
because you have a couple
hundred thousand of debt
on your back just getting out.
And that is a problem.
I mean, you do have to
go where the money is.
Let's talk about
what was happening
earlier in the
20th century, where
we had a plethora of
alternatives to medical school.
Let's talk about what
that environment was like
and what was available
if you wanted
to go into the field of healing.
>>BIGELSEN: Going back to the
beginning of the 20th century,
there were several
different professions.
And most of them were
natural type of professions.
The AMA themselves, they
actually started in 1847.
And they went out.
One of the first things
they did was set up
a department of propaganda.
And they went out to
eliminate all the competition.
And in 1910, Rockefeller
sponsors them, OK?
And his sponsoring
really, step by step,
slowly gets rid of
the alternative people
and makes these
people the king, OK?
And the irony of
Rockefeller-- to tell you
the whole true story of
it-- he was a vegetarian.
He lived to the age of
94, never saw a doctor.
And he worked with a homeopathic
physician all the time.
But yet he sponsored the
pharmaceutical companies
because that's where money
was made, plain and simple.
That tells you a lot
about the country.
>>REGINA: Now, you told me off
camera about another person.
They had access to a
document or something that
had to do with the
field of chiropractic,
that there was a specific
effort to eradicate
the country of
chiropractors at one point.
>>BIGELSEN: I hired
a private detective.
Because when they started
coming after me, after a while,
there was a reality to it.
I was almost living a
Kafkaesque novel over there.
And I hired a private
detective to find out
what was really going on.
He was an interesting
private detective.
He, back in the
'60s actually-- I
think it was the
'60s or early '70s--
he goes into the
AMA headquarters
with phony credentials
as a newspaper man.
And he wants to go after
alternative medicine
supposedly.
So they let him into the files.
And he finds in the
files in the minutes
of a meeting in
November of 1963--
the meeting says that
basically they're
going to go out for the
containment of chiropractic,
ultimately, the elimination
of chiropractic.
That was step one by the AMA.
The concept-- they
were going out
first to organize to
smear the chiropractors,
to make them lowly, and then
eliminate them and get them out
of the system.
And the chiropractors--
what happened-- actually,
the chiropractors sue the AMA.
And the AMA paid them off $10
million behind the scenes.
>>REGINA: Oh, really?
>>BIGELSEN: They paid them
off, because the chiropractors
were right.
So they kept it quiet.
An they just paid them off.
And the chiropractors went away.
And now they're not really
covered by insurance,
though AMA is.
They are secondary
physicians completely.
So for $10 million, they bought
out the chiropractic system.
>>REGINA: And it's important
to know too-- a lot of people
think, oh, chiropractors.
They probably go
to a week-- I mean,
if you don't know
anything about it,
you think, oh,
back crackers, they
must go to some kind of a
trade course to do that,
not understanding these
guys go through virtually
the same number of years of
medical school that an MD does.
And these are highly
proficient practitioners.
>>BIGELSEN: Yeah,
they learn structure.
Structure is a real
key in the body.
We're never taught
how one bone is
aligned against another bone.
Now, I'm not for the cracking
of the chiropractors.
But there's a lot
of chiropractors
that don't crack--
>>REGINA: --that manipulate.
>>BIGELSEN: --that
just manipulate,
and get the body aligned.
And to me, the structure
of the body is holy, OK?
One famous physician said,
"Disease cannot exist where
there are no obstructions."
If you have an obstruction
in the flow of things,
you get a stagnant pond.
In the stagnant pond,
the garbage happens.
The key is to open
that structure up.
This is holy.
I look at the human body
as an eight-cylinder car
created by God, OK?
And things like Lyme
disease, they're
running on four cylinders.
It has nothing to
do with the germ.
I try to figure out why the
cylinders aren't working.
>>REGINA: Yeah so this gained
you a lot of popularity
in medical school, as
we already talked about.
>>BIGELSEN: Yes, it did.
>>REGINA: And so the
propaganda department--
is-- what exactly-- how did
they express themselves?
How were they
utilized at the time?
Most people don't know the AMA
had a propaganda department.
>>BIGELSEN: No.
That started in 1847.
>>REGINA: And does it
still exist on some level,
or does it happen just
through advertising?
>>BIGELSEN: It exists on more
of not an open level, OK?
The AMA, they won their show.
They got their kingdom
that they want.
So basically, they
got all the things.
They don't need to have that
propaganda as much anymore.
But they still do.
I mean, you watch all
the commercials on TV.
And everything's propaganda.
You know, one of the
things that I talk about--
if they're so good,
what's their cure rate?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BIGELSEN: Do you how many
chronic diseases they found
a cure for in the
last 100 years?
None.
>>REGINA: Zero.
>>BIGELSEN: Zero.
>>REGINA: Yeah, absolutely.
OK.
So they've shut down the
non-allopathic schools
for the most part.
They marginalize chiropractors.
Homeopathic schools
were over 40%
of the schools at the time
in the early 1900s, right?
>>BIGELSEN: Yes, they were.
And the last two homeopathic
schools became medical schools.
It was in 1944.
Samuel Hahnemann-- Hahnemann
Medical School-- the founder
of homeopathy became
a medical school.
OK.
I mean, he's had to
turn over in his grave
for that old philosophy.
>>REGINA: He has to.
>>BIGELSEN: And then
Flower and Fifth
Avenue in New York
became the last one
to become a medical
school in 1947.
>>REGINA: And yeah,
it's ironic, as you say,
that Rockefeller himself,
certainly people that
have the know-how-- and
they have the knowledge.
They have the history with
it-- even the royal family
of England, they all
choose homeopathy
as their primary medicine.
That's primary medicine.
This would be--
allopathic medicine
would be-- more
of a last resort.
And yet-- and I know you
have a real bug about this--
it's been flipped
around in our mind.
The natural is now secondary to
what, essentially, should be--
well, allopathic
is a knocked down
version of what
nature creates, right?
Reverse engineered.
>>BIGELSEN: It's totally
stopping all of nature.
The word antibiotic
means anti-life.
I mean, it's right there.
But people don't realize.
They think you
take an antibiotic,
it's gonna kill one nasty germ.
Well, we've got
billions of germs in us
that are very helpful.
>>REGINA: Yeah
>>BIGELSEN: OK.
No, that's--
>>REGINA: OK.
So they won that battle.
Now, another way they do it--
I have this written down here.
And this is something you
dealt with-- the Committee
on Quackery.
Let's talk about the
various committees
that are out there to make
sure that anyone who does
go outside the box is contained.
>>BIGELSEN: They formed
the National Council
Against Health Fraud, which
is a committee on quackery.
That committee was really
designed to smear others,
to go out and try to eliminate
them with the state agencies.
Ironically, they actually had
someone assigned in Arizona
from the University of
Arizona to go after me
and to try to smear me because
I had so much power in Arizona.
And the irony of
what went on with him
was not that long ago, he
died on an operating table.
He died in their
hands, which is just
exactly what I'm telling people.
And he's fighting against that.
>>REGINA: Oh, my god.
>>BIGELSEN: Ironically,
that happens to him.
>>REGINA: The great irony--
>>BIGELSEN: Yes.
>>REGINA: --because that is what
you've been saying all along.
Once you turn yourself over,
especially surgery-- what?--
that the doctors'
care or mistakes--
whatever you want to
call it-- is-- what?--
the third leading cause
of death in the US now.
>>BIGELSEN: Third
leading cause of death.
First leading cause of
death is heart attack.
700,000 people die every year.
Cancer-- 500,000
people die every year.
And 200,000 people die every
year from doctors' errors.
>>REGINA: OK.
So this man, who went after
you, died of doctors' error
on the table.
>>BIGELSEN: Yes, on the table.
The irony of it, the
serendipity of it--
I didn't wish
anything against him.
But you know, the universe
works in fascinating ways.
>>REGINA: Yeah, it is amazing.
OK, so I would like to
get a little more now
into what happened.
I know there's
some other doctors
I have a tremendous amount of
respect for who have ended up
on the quack list as well.
In fact, probably most of
them I have a lot of respect
for are somewhere
on the quack list.
>>BIGELSEN: By the way,
if you go to Quackwatch
on the internet, and you
Google my name into it,
you'll find that
I got sanctioned
for illegible handwriting.
>>REGINA: Right.
Now we're going to go on
that part of the journey.
Now, we've talked a
little bit about how
the system is structured.
But I want to talk about
your particular case
so people can see just
how crazy it gets.
OK, so what happened
initially with you?
Where did the trouble begin?
>>BIGELSEN: The trouble
began-- a patient came in to me
with a severe iritis, a
severe problem with one eye.
And he had been to six doctors
who could not fix that.
And I did my treatments using
what's called neural therapy.
I used my formulas.
And I injected behind they
eye a standard thing that's
done in Europe.
In 24 hours, he was better.
So he calls up the
physicians to tell them
the story of what happened.
Well, they got so upset
that they turned me in.
They called up the medical
board to tell them about me.
So the medical board
comes after to me
to bring up charges
against me that I
cured a person with
an illegal means.
No one asked me.
The head of the
board said, we don't
care if your patients are
getting better or worse.
We only care if you're
doing the work in our way,
scientifically.
In other words,
die in our hands.
But don't you dare get better
in a way we don't know.
It was unbelievable.
>>REGINA: Now, were you actually
surprised at this at the time?
Were you that naive?
>>BIGELSEN: I was stunned.
I was that naive then.
I knew they were-- we had a law.
We set it up.
There were things I
knew they were after.
But I never-- this was a case
that I did a great job on, OK?
>>REGINA: How heartbreaking.
I mean, that has to be
totally heartbreaking.
And then to have to
pay a price for it.
What was the price?
How did the rest of it go?
Because I know you were audited.
>>BIGELSEN: It starts off
as, I'm legal in Arizona.
Even if I lose a medical
license in Arizona,
I still have a
homeopathic license
that allows me to
do a lot of things.
So the next thing I know, I get
a random Medicare audit, OK?
Every year, they
randomly audit 3% of--
>>REGINA: --physicians.
>>BIGELSEN: --physicians, right.
They then randomly pick 28
cases out of my 3,000 files.
Now I got a little suspicious
on this, because those 28 cases
only involve something
called chelation therapy,
something I had never
done in my entire career.
However, I had a guy that
worked with me for three months.
And he did those.
Those are his 28 cases.
Ergo, impossible to
be a random pick.
>>REGINA: Not random.
>>BIGELSEN: The only 28
cases of my 3,000 files
they pick out to audit.
>>REGINA: OK, now
what was the bug
about chelation at the time?
I mean, how were they're
using this to discredit you?
Was it under scrutiny?
>>BIGELSEN: There was a
big chelation organization
who was under scrutiny.
By the way, 22 members
of that organization,
the American Academy of
Chelation Therapy, 22 members
got the same random audit,
which is very interesting, OK?
>>REGINA: Random, right?
>>BIGELSEN: It's random.
What's very
frightening is to pick
those 28 cases out of
my 3,000 files, that
means they're looking at the
codes and they're spying on me.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BIGELSEN: If they're
spying on me here,
they're spying on you there.
They're spying on you there, OK?
This is not just
one thing, which
is very, very frightening.
>>REGINA: So at
what point-- what
did it take before you actually
lost your medical license?
>>BIGELSEN: Well, they
kept on coming after me.
And they eventually
convicted me.
They indicted me on 117
counts of Medicare fraud,
totalling $3,500,
totalling $3,500.
>>REGINA: So like
$10 here and there
they said were fraudulently
charged against the system?
>>BIGELSEN: I mean,
like my business--
I had eight practitioners--
we did $5 million
worth of business in
that time. $3,500, OK?
>>REGINA: And 117 cases.
>>BIGELSEN: And 117 cases, yes.
>>REGINA: So we're talking
roughly $30 a case.
I mean, what was happening?
What was the office doing?
Was it overcharging on
faxing charges or something?
Or what was really
going on there?
>>BIGELSEN: No, we were
just checking off the codes,
trying to help the
people, plain and simple.
What's the closest code, an
office visit or something
like that?
But they were just watching.
They knew who I was.
>>REGINA: So it's not hard.
If you're going
after someone, you
can look at those tick
boxes and say, oh,
was it necessary
to tick that box?
And it'll total maybe
$20 or $30 or something,
part of a service.
>>BIGELSEN: That's right.
>>REGINA: That's what happened.
So how long had you been
in practice at this point?
You had quite a thriving
practice is my understanding.
>>BIGELSEN: Oh, I
had a huge practice.
And, like I said, eight
practitioners worked under me.
There was 20 staff.
I was booked up several
months in advance.
The business was doing a couple
million dollars a year almost,
grossing, OK?
So that was big for them to come
after me for that little money.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BIGELSEN: For
that little money.
>>REGINA: They had
to look pretty hard
to even find that
much out of 117 cases.
>>BIGELSEN: Right.
>>REGINA: So obviously
there was clear intent.
They were going
to find something.
And they were going
to take you down.
What happened, once
you lost your license,
to the rest of the practice?
>>REGINA: Well, totally, I
was thrown out of the country.
I had nothing.
So I went to Mexico.
And I opened up a
cancer clinic in Mexico.
You can do anything
you want down there.
And Baja California
is a free trade zone.
So I got a Mexican
doctor to help front me,
to tell you honestly.
>>REGINA: And then
you could work
with your European remedies
and all the avant garde things
that you were accustomed to.
>>BIGELSEN: Right.
And actually, it was a
blessing in disguise.
Because I'd get cases that
were given up by everyone.
So I had my own human
population, almost,
of Guinea pigs.
Because they were all given up.
And now I had living in an
area that I could get remedies
from all around the
world in a free trade
zone, which is
absolutely incredible.
So I can start to
look at different ways
to go after that.
And starting to teach people,
it was almost a human Guinea pig
population.
Because you could
do no harm to them.
They were already basically--
>>REGINA: They'd been written
off by the establishment.
>>BIGELSEN: Yeah.
They had eight toes
in the grave already.
Anything that I can do--
>>REGINA: And did you
have a good percentage
at turning that around?
>>BIGELSEN: Yes.
We had a cure rate.
We developed, really, honestly,
100% turnaround of prostate
cancer almost no matter
what the stage it was.
Breast cancer, on the first
three stages of breast cancer,
we were pretty close to
100% turnaround on those
also, the ones that were
hormonally positive.
So our cancer-- we had, I
tell people, a cure rate, OK?
>>REGINA: And you can't say
that as an MD in the US.
You are not allowed to
really cure anything.
>>BIGELSEN: No.
You're not allowed
to use the word cure,
because you're giving
that person false hope.
So I was told very
specifically in medical school,
never use the word cure
in front of a patient, OK?
>>REGINA: And how
hopeful is that?
When you start looking at the
mind body connection, the need
for us to feel that there's
a hope that we are going
to find a cure for
whatever it is,
it robs you that
right off if you're
in a relationship with an MD.
>>BIGELSEN: That's right.
>>REGINA: You don't
have that hope.
>>BIGELSEN: They rob you.
They don't believe in
a mind-body connection.
>>REGINA: Right.
No, I understand that.
>>BIGELSEN: All disease, by
them, is a virus or a gene,
or you're allergic to yourself--
autoimmune they call it, OK?
Everything they can't
find has got to be-- maybe
we'll find a virus.
Because there's got to be
some small invisible thing
that's invading you.
So they're always
looking for a virus.
Like, I had a case
the other day.
They came into the clinic.
And he was autoimmune, you know?
It was his fault
that he's ill, OK?
Do you ever see a
deer in the forest
you believe is
allergic to itself?
Do you think the creator made
anyone allergic to themselves?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BIGELSEN: Something's
wrong there.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
something's wrong.
So there's definitely
a corruption there.
OK, let me read
something to you,
because we were talking about
you were not just censored.
You were stripped
of your license.
You went south of the border.
Over $3,500 in supposed Medicare
fraud for over 117 cases.
At the same time, Bill Frist--
>>BIGELSEN: Oh, yeah.
I was going to mentioned that.
>>REGINA: No, that's what I--
>>BIGELSEN: By the
way, we negotiated
to a $145 conviction.
What was by the way.
>>REGINA: 140-- so
basically $1 a case.
OK.
>>BIGELSEN: Right.
>>REGINA: All right.
>>BIGELSEN: At the same
time, Senator Bill Frist
opened up a series of
HMOs around the country.
And he was given a
Medicare fraud misdemeanor
for $1.7 billion dollars.
And he paid it
off in two checks.
>>REGINA: Yours was a
felony for $145 negotiated.
His was a misdemeanor for
$1.7 billion in fraud?
>>BIGELSEN: Yes.
>>REGINA: And he didn't-- well,
of course, he's not an MD.
So they can't strip
him of anything.
>>BIGELSEN: It was his
clinics and everything.
He had the HMOs.
It was his show.
And, like I said, he paid
it off in two checks,
two separate checks
for $1.7 billion.
>>REGINA: Well, he's clearly
better connected than you were.
>>BIGELSEN: Yes.
Well, you know, Senator Bill
Frist is a cardiologist.
He worked as a
cardiovascular surgeon.
>>REGINA: Did have a
license at the time?
>>BIGELSEN: I believe so.
>>REGINA: Did he
lose his license?
>>BIGELSEN: No.
He just probably
doesn't use it anymore.
I don't think-- I think
he's still got a license.
>>REGINA: And he wasn't even--
just on the ceremony of it
alone, he wasn't-- no.
OK.
All right.
So I wanted to
bring that up just
to show how it's not
really a very equal system
when it comes to all these
random audits and so forth.
>>BIGELSEN: No way.
>>REGINA: So if you
are an MD and you
want to go outside
of the box, you've
learned of some other fabulous
complementary therapies-- which
is a good way to put a lot
of it-- what can you do?
What are you allowed
to do as an MD?
>>BIGELSEN: Well, apparantly
not allowed to cure a person.
>>REGINA: You're what?
>>BIGELSEN: Not allowed
to cure a person.
I got to go back to that,
because that's not used.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>BIGELSEN: What
am I allowed to do?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
What would you be
allowed to do if you
want to go outside of the box?
>>BIGELSEN: Most
of the stuff that I
got were natural from Europe.
Now, all of the stuff
that I got was legal.
The biggest thing that
I tell people-- you
know, you can do those things.
Under your license,
theoretically, you
can do those things.
Just don't tell anyone.
>>BIGELSEN: Yeah
Well, there you go.
>>BIGELSEN: Don't tell anyone.
>>REGINA: But I mean, what
happens when someone comes in,
maybe if they're looking,
sending someone in
to check on you?
>>BIGELSEN: My biggest
problem ended up--
there are people that get away
with the alternative people.
Most alternative
people are hiding.
They're afraid, OK?
They're afraid that something's
going to go on with them.
And I just tell people
now, one of my problems
was that I was a big mouth.
I came out and said it.
I tell the people,
no, just don't
go out in front of the
cameras and spout your things
and call the AMA ridiculous.
Because they will get you.
>>REGINA: OK.
So stay quite.
If you're going to do
it, stay under the radar.
What is the function
of naturopaths?
I think a lot of people don't
understand what a naturopath is
compared to an M.D. What is one
allowed to do versus the other?
>>BIGELSEN: First of
all, the naturopaths
are licensed in-- I
think only in 17 states.
But they're allowed to give
almost all types of treatments.
They can write certain
prescriptions also
in those states.
But they're into the
body's chemistry.
They're into the pHs of
the body, the control
over the body, keeping
the body healthy.
>>REGINA: So that's where
you might find chelation,
for example.
You might find IV therapies.
>>BIGELSEN: You'll find
a lot IV therapies a lot
times with naturopathic
physicians, yes.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BIGELSEN: OK.
And they're controlling
the pHs in the body.
And they're really into
the cell metabolism,
getting the body healthy.
They're not into
disease, but as much
as how can they make the body
healthier and perform better?
>>REGINA: So what
happens if you choose
to go to a naturopathic
school of medicine?
Is it a similar process?
>>BIGELSEN: Yes
>>REGINA: Same number of
hours, years, et cetera?
>>BIGELSEN: Yeah.
It's many years.
In fact, a goal of
mine would be actually
to teach by work in a
naturopathic school,
because I think they
would understand
all the natural work.
But you're looking at
probably five years
of schooling,
postgraduate schooling.
>>REGINA: Postgraduate
schooling.
So really it's a
totally different board
that would certify
the naturopaths?
>>BIGELSEN: Yes, yes.
>>REGINA: And so my
understanding there also--
naturopathic practitioners,
which is not exactly the same
as a naturopath--
>>BIGELSEN: I'm
not sure of that.
>>REGINA: A couple
of people have
said they didn't go
through the full training.
And it's like, how can
you not go through it
and be a naturopath.
So to be a naturopath,
you have to have
gone through the same
four or five years.
>>BIGELSEN: You have
to get that diploma.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>BIGELSEN: You have to
pass all the tests, yes.
>>REGINA: OK.
So in a little bit, we're
going to talk about some
of the avant garde
therapies you've been using.
And I really want to get
into stem cell therapy.
Because this is something
that I think people,
they hear whispers
of it on the news.
Oh, well, President
Bush, President Obama
says we're going to basically
allow stem cell therapy
to start taking place
in the United States.
And then it goes away,
comes back, and so forth.
This is something
that you've actually
spent a fair amount
of time with.
>>BIGELSEN: Yes, I have.
I've used stem cell work
now for about 10 years, OK?
The French are making stem
cells from pigs that you drink.
Pigs and humans have
very similar genetics.
So those stem cells you
get through the membranes
of the mouth, I can import
them and deal with them.
>>REGINA: Now can you, as
an MD, could any MD do this?
Or because you're outside
of the law right now,
it allows you to do that?
>>BIGELSEN: Any MD can do this.
I get the product from a
distributor in Florida.
Any MD can do this.
>>REGINA: So what
is it that Congress
keeps going back
and forth about then
regarding stem cell therapy?
Is it more an
ethical issue having
to do with the source
of the stem cells?
>>BIGELSEN: They're looking
at stem cells only in one way.
They're looking at
one way-- if you
have a problem with the brain,
getting brain stem cells
and drilling it into the skull.
And they're looking at standards
and that type of thing.
>>REGINA: I see OK.
>>BIGELSEN: The French make it.
You can drink it like this, OK?
But the United States is looking
at everything Las Vegas style.
They know stem cells
are regenerating things.
Basically, what it is is
if you're 55 years old,
every day, old cells are dying
and being born at 55, OK?
>>REGINA: But in stem cells,
you come back younger.
We're going to talk
about that and talk
about the various
conditions you've
worked with with stem cells.
So we'll be back in just
a couple of minutes.
[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>>REGINA: Welcome to the next
evolution of Conscious Media
Network.
Some of you have been with
us throughout our journey.
And now, as a result of our
partnership with gaimtv.com,
we're able to reach
more independent,
progressive thinkers like you.
In addition to the hundreds
of interviews for CMN,
I'm now able to do twice as
many interviews each month
with the leading visionaries
and authors of our time.
This is possible because of
Gaiam TV's genuine commitment
to preserve and expand this kind
of groundbreaking information.
>> JOAN BORYSENKO: I have a
great deal of faith that this
universe is a friendly place.
>>REGINA: In fact,
gaimtv.com is destined
to become the largest portal
of conscious media intended
to awaken and inspire.
>>JEAN HOUSTON: We don't
just live in the universe.
The universe lives in us.
>>REGINA: I could not be
happier with this partnership
and the possibilities that
lie ahead for all of us.
>>JOE DISPENZA:
Most people really
are thinking the same way
every day, acting the same way,
and feeling the same way,
but really hoping something
will show up differently
in their life.
And it never does.
>>REGINA: Other well known faces
in the alternative media scene
will also be collaborating
with gaimtv.com
to provide even
more perspectives.
>>RICHARD HOAGLAND:
Did the Mayans
understand about
hyperdimensional torsion field
physics?
I think I can prove they did.
>>REGINA: In addition to my
live interviews from Gaiam TV
Studios, Scott and I
will still be traveling
around the world for other
exclusive interviews.
>>BIGELSEN: You've got
pharmaceutical commercials
telling you, go to
see your doctor this,
go to tell your doctor that.
It's a brain washing.
>>REGINA: Meanwhile,
I wanted to give you
a quick preview of
gaimtv.com so you
can see what's being
made available for you
as a result of this partnership.
>>MICHAEL TELLINGER: This
is in the late 1400s.
When they asked the
local African tribes who
built these structures, the
answer was, we don't know.
Now, that is not what you'll
read in history books today.
I have a big problem with that.
>>REGINA: You'll find
curated consciousness
expanding films, thought
provoking documentaries,
engaging TV shows,
and much more.
Please join us for the next
evolution of conscious media.
[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>>REGINA: OK, we're back.
And we're talking about
stem cell therapy.
Harvey's been working with stem
cells for about a decade now.
Now, did you have
to originally do
this through Brownsville
or out of Mexico?
>>BIGELSEN: Yeah,
I had to do it--
>>REGINA: Brownsville, Texas,
which is a border town.
>>BIGELSEN: What
I had to do is--
I found some people
in Mexico that
were using human stem cells, OK?
And I contacted them.
And I had a gal that
was autistic, OK?
And she quote,
"had Lyme disease."
But she was really autistic.
It was really an
interesting case.
She was crying and
always had her head down
and just banging her head
against the wall 23 hours
a day type of thing.
And we brought her
down to Mexico.
And it was the first time
we tried human stem cells.
And I had a group of
seven of us, actually.
We all did.
It was very, very fascinating.
>>REGINA: Seven what?
Who were the others?
>>BIGELSEN: There were seven.
I tried it myself.
I believe my wife tried them.
There with some other
case that I had.
And it was very
interesting what we did.
Each one, I took
the blood before.
I took a drop of blood before
and I took a drop of blood
afterwards.
>>REGINA: Let me just say this.
Because if you didn't see the
first interview with Harvey,
Harvey does dark
field microscopy.
It's a type of live blood
cell analysis, which
is absolutely phenomenal
because it's instantaneous.
You can see right where
your body is in the moment.
So that's what he's
talking about when you're
talking about you took the
drop of blood and looked at it.
>>BIGELSEN: I took the drop
of blood of everyone before.
Then I took the drop of
blood of everyone afterwards.
And it was so fascinating.
Everyone reacted in
their own unique way.
My white count tends to be
high because as a little child
I had a lot of
surgeries and there's
a lot of inflammation
in my body.
My white count dropped down.
Other people's, whose
white counts were low
and their immune system wasn't
as strong as that, whatever
it is, their white
counts went up.
Everyone reacted
in a different way.
And it was so interesting
that when everyone got the IV,
it hit them in a different way.
Some people-- oh,
my knee got it.
This gal got a headache
immediately, my autistic gal.
Everyone got-- wherever
their weak spot was,
they felt something
happen to them.
That was so fascinating.
The autistic gal was
over the next night.
She was talking at dinner,
just blah, blah blah.
She was going a mile a minute.
>>REGINA: From stem cells.
>>BIGELSEN: From the stem cells.
>>REGINA: And this was
just one dose or treatment?
>>BIGELSEN: One dose.
That autistic gal just recently
graduated from UC Davis, OK?
She was locked up in a home,
completely lost and everything.
She's absolutely brilliant.
And I think she's going
to become a naturopath
and go on and do the work
because that work changed
her life.
>>REGINA: Wow.
I mean, it's really phenomenal.
So when you say that you're
taking live cells, live stem
cells that are still in their
young and perfected condition,
in this case, you
were using human?
And really that's
been a big part
of the debate is the
sourcing of the stem
cells more than anything else.
I mean, can you talk about that?
Because people hear stem cells.
Oh, they see these
advertisements
that have dead fetuses and such.
And let's talk about that.
>>BIGELSEN: You can get
them from fetal tissue.
You can get them from umbilical
tissue, which I really
think is the livelier cells.
The cells in the umbilical
area are actually
starting to differentiate.
They make those.
I like those the best of all.
I've used them.
Lately, I've been
using the animal tissue
because in the United States,
you really can't do stem cell.
That's why we went to Mexico.
>>REGINA: Right.
You can't do human stem cells.
>>BIGELSEN: Right.
In the United States, that's
why we use the French stem
cells that you drink, OK.
>>REGINA: OK, so first of
all, the umbilical stem cells,
how does one procure those?
I mean, I know that
in terms of shamanism,
the umbilical cord is sacred.
It's a sacred life form.
>>BIGELSEN: They're actually
taking fetal umbilical tissue
cells and growing
them on plates.
And the cells now
our regenerating
at their rate, whatever it is.
You've got brain cells in there.
It's not forming a brain.
But it's forming
at a certain stage.
If I can take those
cells and give it to you,
it now makes your brain
start to work better.
>>REGINA: And so they're
differentiated enough
that they target that
specific part of your being.
>>BIGELSEN: That specific part.
I had one case that
was so interesting.
I was treating this-- I
had this woman patient.
And her mother had Alzheimer's.
And she would take her
mother around every place.
Her mother was sitting
out in the waiting room
So I brought the woman patient
in before I stopped a second.
Give me a second.
I had a thought.
And I went over.
I grabbed a cc of
human brain-- of pig
stem cells for the brain.
And I gave her a cc
of that and just told
her to hold it in her mouth.
And we went in.
And I took care of the daughter.
We came out an hour
later and came back.
And the mother looks at me and
says, Dr. Bigelsen, what am I
doing here?
>>REGINA: Is that a good
thing or a bad thing?
>>BIGELSEN: She
recognized me, OK?
And she hadn't done
that in over a year.
>>REGINA: So she didn't know how
she had been teleported there
or why she was even
in your office.
>>BIGELSEN: That's right,
why she was even there.
But the stem cells
brought her there.
And right then and there,
she got cleared up.
>>REGINA: And that
was in an hour?
>>BIGELSEN: Within an hour, yes.
>>REGINA: Within and hour.
>>BIGELSEN: These things
get into the blood so fast.
And that's why I said when they
did the IV ones, everyone--
if you had a problem in the
head, you got a headache.
You had a problem in the knee.
You had a knee ache.
Everyone had their own
thing with the IV ones.
I was stunned that the oral ones
get in there that fast also.
>>REGINA: OK, so you
said you're using
porcine, which is pig DNA.
>>BIGELSEN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Is it identical
enough to human DNA
that it's targeting?
>>BIGELSEN: It's the closest.
>>REGINA: I mean,
what is the success
rate of porcine versus human?
>>BIGELSEN: Well, first of
all, human you can't use.
That's the biggest one.
>>REGINA: Well, I mean,
you had in the past
in Mexico a little bit.
>>BIGELSEN: I only used
a little bit of it.
>>REGINA: OK, so it's
mostly been porcine.
These cases you're talking
about are mostly porcine?
>>BIGELSEN: Porcine, yeah,
mostly the pig cells.
Pig and human are very
similar genetically.
So it's mostly those
that I'm using now,
because that I can use
in the United States.
We can use those,
because I buy it
from a distributor
in the United States.
And the FDA lets it in because
they think it's no big deal.
It's an oral product.
Since it's an oral product,
it's not a big deal
and can't do much.
>>REGINA: How many
people in the US,
how many practitioners
are actually using these?
>>BIGELSEN: I don't know.
I don't know.
>>REGINA: Because as
you're talking about this,
anybody listening
is going to say, oh,
my father is suffering
from dementia right now.
I mean, this brings a
lot of hope to people.
But where do people actually go?
>>BIGELSEN: Really honestly,
if they want to find out,
contact me.
>>REGINA: And you'll
find that in their area
>>BIGELSEN: And I can
see if I can find someone
in their area for them.
A lot of times though, what
you got to do with stem cells--
a big thing you got
to do with stem cells
is you got to prep the patient.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I was going to
ask you, when does it not work?
You must have had cases
where it just didn't take.
>>BIGELSEN: Well, I found
out why it doesn't work, OK?
>>REGINA: OK.
>>BIGELSEN: If the person's
got a problem with their lungs
or something like that,
or a problem in the brain,
or a problem in
their intestines,
that means they're not
getting the acupuncture
flows through, fluid and
electric circulation flows
through, nothing.
Things aren't getting
through properly,
so that tissue is
getting weakened, OK?
What I find is when the
tissue is getting weakened,
we have to prep the patient.
A lot of times it's
blocked by a scar.
Scars will block things.
>>REGINA: What about other
kinds of trauma to the body?
>>BIGELSEN: Oh, yeah.
No one's got a perfect
body, plain and simple.
That's why I tell people to
do things like yoga and stuff
like that because really,
that's a divine exercise.
>>REGINA: Right.
Yes, indeed.
To open up all of the pathways.
>>BIGELSEN: What I do
is open up the body.
And the body heals
itself as best it can.
So we do a lot of
structural work,
a lot of classic
osteopathic work.
We do a lot of what's called go
after the disturbance fields.
Someone puts a knife in you.
That blocks everything.
We loosen those scars up, OK?
>>REGINA: Right.
And we talked about that
in our last interview.
That's why you use the
isopathic therapies from your--
>>BIGELSEN: That's why I
use that to get that so I
can get the remedies
to the area.
People have problems in an
area because they're not
getting the circulation or
the acupuncture flows to it.
We open them up.
Most of the time, you've
got to really go up
to-- go after where
the scars are,
because that's
the biggest injury
in the body, some surgical scar.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BIGELSEN: I tell people,
a good doctor's got drool
coming out of the mouth and
looking for your surgical scar.
And he's got a needle behind his
back over there to open you up.
He's doing something instead of
giving you a prescription, OK?
He's actually taking the
physical body, which,
is to me, holy,
and opening that up
and letting the physical
body take care of itself.
>>REGINA: So you must have
found there were cases then.
It took you a while to
make this correlation
that if the body was blocked,
the stem cell therapy was not
working.
>>BIGELSEN: Correct.
It took me awhile.
I know of no one.
I've tried to communicate
with others on it.
And I know of no one
that gets that point.
If you give stem cells because
you've got a bad liver,
well, you may have had
surgery around there.
They're not going to work, OK?
You've got to open
it up and make
sure those cells
get to that liver.
That's the real key.
>>REGINA: So what are some of
the areas of stem cell research
right now that're
really hopeful.
I mean, we hear about spinal
cord injuries, for example.
That comes up a lot in
terms of stem cell therapy.
>>BIGELSEN: I think the
future is stem cells.
I think that's totally
the future of medicine.
The United States,
though, is so far behind
because it's so
pharmaceutically controlled.
Unless the industry can
control it with stem cells,
they don't want it,
because they make money
on all the pills and
everything like that.
So the US is massively behind
in research on this, OK?
>>REGINA: Who are the
leading countries?
If someone says,
hey, I'm doing this.
I'll leave the US and pay
out of pocket, who's really--
>>BIGELSEN: Oh, the French.
>>REGINA: The French.
>>BIGELSEN: I tell people,
and we talked about it.
They eat like crazy, drink
like crazy, smoke like crazy.
They're thin as rails.
And they live five to
eight years longer than us.
>>REGINA: Still?
>>BIGELSEN: Yes, they do
>>REGINA: That stat's
still holding up?
They live longer than us still?
>>BIGELSEN: They live
longer than us, right.
To me, I'm not sure.
I get my stem cells
through a distributor.
So I'm really not sure
that the French companies,
how they found it, what
they're really doing.
I'm trying to set up a network
to get a hold of practitioners
in Europe so we start to
coordinate a lot of this.
>>REGINA: And share
information with each other?
>>BIGELSEN: Share
information, yes.
Because it's so underground
in North America, no
one talks about it, you know?
The guy that I work
with in Mexico,
he used to work in
the United States.
And he got arrested, OK?
They were after him for that.
They trashed him on TV
and stuff like that.
And I haven't heard
from him in a while.
>>REGINA: Is there a fair
amount of stem cell therapy
available down South
across the border?
>>BIGELSEN: Well, the
beauty about Mexico, Baja
is a free trade zone.
So you can get anything there.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>REGINA: There
are now supposedly
several different
clinics that are
doing stem cell work in Baja.
Now, also you've got
to realize sometimes
a lot of that down in
Baja is a lot of thievery.
>>REGINA: Right.
That's true.
>>BIGELSEN: So what you
can trust in there--
I saw on the internet some
of the type of stem cell
work they're doing.
I'd have real questions
about some of that stuff.
And some of the
stuff that I've read,
I know they don't prep it.
I do believe in Mexico, you
can get good stem cells.
But I'm not convinced
that you can
get it prepped for
the stuff like that.
If I didn't have
someone specifically
to work with in
something like that--
>>REGINA: You
wouldn't recommend it?
>>BIGELSEN: I
wouldn't recommend it.
Because you have to
be prepped, or else
you're going to be
wasting a lot of money.
>>REGINA: OK, when you say
a lot of money, now, what's
the classic medical
model for stem cell?
And what is that cost
compared to the stem cell
therapy you're talking about?
Is there a difference?
>>BIGELSEN: Well, you
know, right now, in the US,
you can't get stem cells.
And I think they're going to run
up costs tremendously on this.
If you're looking
in Mexico, any place
between $8,000 and $15,000
for something like that.
>>REGINA: For what?
I mean, a few injections, or--
>>BIGELSEN: They
give you generic.
If you go down there, you
get a generic stem cell
from where they got it,
what umbilical tissue.
Some of them will take your
stem cells and send them out,
and within 24, 48
hours come back.
And the stem cell will
come back with something
that was just designed for you.
I'm not as convinced that
that is important, OK?
>>REGINA: Well, you said
earlier before our little break
that if you're 55
years old, if you're
sending your own
55-year-old stem cells out,
what are you going to get back?
You're not getting back that
fresh virgin baby information
system.
>>BIGELSEN: I want
that baby information.
I want that, where it's
not polluted with anything.
That's the information
that I want.
And you're going to get
that fetal and umbilical.
And you get that that way.
>>REGINA: So that's really--
when you're talking stem cells,
we're talking about a living
matrix of information.
It's really just information.
>>BIGELSEN: Yes.
Yes, it is.
And it's--
>>REGINA: Is that why it
has to be from fetuses,
so it's, as you say,
uncorrupted, unpolluted--
>>BIGELSEN: It's about as
pure as you can get it.
>>REGINA: --pure information
before the corruptions of life
happen, before the
traumas of life.
>>BIGELSEN: Yes, yes.
Now, there may be in there--
and I've had questions back
and forth-- is the
fetal stuff also
may have a representation
of the mother.
Because the fetus
gets the mother's
not only genetics, but the
mother's emotions and stuff
like that.
So I have certain questions that
if there's problems in there.
You know, I'd like
to get fetal stem
cells from someone's family.
Then I think it's a lot better.
Like if you were
getting stem cells,
but you had now a niece that
had a kid, that gave birth,
I'd save those stem cells.
>>REGINA: Well, that's
what I was going to ask.
I thought I'd read an article
about that recently where
a family was having their
newborn children's stem
cells taken and preserved.
Did they freeze them?
What do they do?
>>BIGELSEN: They freeze them.
And this is a new thing
that's coming about.
And it's expanding tremendously.
And they're saved then.
You know, you're saving
this for you baby.
>>REGINA: No, to me
this is just incredible.
I mean, even in some
very, very highly
esoteric areas of
healing that have
to do more with the
mind and time and space,
the whole idea is these
instantaneous healings are
happening as a
result of somehow,
through processes, merging the
original template before it's
aged, corrupted, and so forth,
back with where they are now,
even just working with the mind.
>>BIGELSEN: Yes.
It's such a difference.
And you can start to
see it on the patients.
You take a picture
of a patient now.
Take a picture a year later.
You'll see less wrinkles.
>>REGINA: Seriously?
>>BIGELSEN: Seriously,
you see that.
The glow on the patient changes.
They are acting younger.
They are doing things.
I make my stem cell people go
out there and be more active.
The more active they are,
they start to become younger.
>>REGINA: Well, that-- yeah,
that's kind of interesting.
Because yesterday
when we were talking,
you were telling me that
the fastest growing part
of the field of medical
surgery is cosmetic surgery.
>>BIGELSEN: Yes.
>>REGINA: Now what about
cosmetic stem cells?
I mean, you'd think
people would be--
>>BIGELSEN: I think it
would be much better.
You know, give yourself just a
little time instead of someone
cutting you with a
knife and you know--
Americans want everything
fast though right?
Give it to me right now.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
OK, so let's talk about say, a
spinal cord injury for example.
Now, you're going to use
these porcine stem cells
on a spinal cord injury.
What are you looking
at in terms of time?
What is the cost
doing it the way
you would do it, say,
an oral stem cell?
How long does it take to
repair something that severe?
>>BIGELSEN:
Everyone's different.
Everyone's different
is the first thing.
So the first couple
times, you're
almost testing
them on the stuff.
But they should react
pretty darn quickly.
My son was calling me up.
In fact, he was seeing
someone just recently.
And the kid had what's
called a dropped foot, OK?
An as soon as we gave
him stem cells-- and this
came from surgery that
he had when he was young.
As soon as we gave
him stem cells,
he started to walk differently.
He used to almost trip
sometimes by hitting his foot.
Now it's different.
Now he can walk and hold
his foot the right way.
>>REGINA: OK, let's look
at the other side of it.
Is their flip side?
Can stem cells actually
cause damage to the person?
Or is it just that they
take or don't take?
Can they cause damage?
>>BIGELSEN: I haven't
seen any damage.
I haven't seen any
negative things.
The biggest negative
is it's not getting
to the area for some reason.
It's costing the patient money.
That's the biggest negative.
And if that happens, that
means I've missed something.
What have I missed?
Because I want to
get it to right.
You know, like I said
before, the US is
going to drill stem into your
brain, while the French--
>>REGINA: What do you mean
drill into your brain?
>>BIGELSEN: Oh, if you've got
some problem with your brain--
let's assume there's
Alzheimer's-- the US will drill
a hole in a skull and put
themselves in there to try
to regenerate.
>>REGINA: So they inject
them into the brain.
>>BIGELSEN: Right
into the brain.
>>REGINA: So that's what
you're talking about in terms
of it being $10,000
or $15,000 or $20,000
is that kind of treatment.
>>BIGELSEN: That's right.
>>REGINA: But you're
saying that taking it
orally is equally effective?
>>BIGELSEN: I'm stunned
at how effective it is.
And again, the
French are doing it.
They're at number one.
Look them up on the World
Health Organization, OK?
And they've been doing
it for a number of years.
It's mind boggling
that it's that simple.
>>REGINA: Well,
it's very hopeful.
I mean, I love
hearing about this.
OK, let's go back to the French.
Now, is there
anything else on stem
cells we can get
out on the table
now for people that have
been curious about it
but also intimidated
by it or afraid of it?
>>BIGELSEN: Well, really, if you
want to learn about stem cells,
you can check on my website
and actually try to contact us.
We will-- if you're
interested stem cells,
there's ways that we
can do histories on you
and tell you how we
can help you with that.
I can direct you to the
people that help prep you.
I can prep you for that.
But you've got to
be set up for it.
That's a real key.
People don't understand that.
>>REGINA: Otherwise, you're
wasting your time and money.
>>BIGELSEN: You're wasting
your time and money.
Because the reason you've
got a problem in the organ
is because the circulation's
not getting there, OK?
You got to open it up first.
And now you can
regenerate that organ.
>>REGINA: OK, now-- because we
only have about 8 or 10 minutes
left, I want to
get on to Obamacare
toward the end a little bit.
But you mentioned
the French earlier.
And it is that enigma,
that French enigma
to be able to have some
wine and some French bread
and a five course
meal and still not
have the kind of obesity
problems we have.
What is your thought on the
French way of living and diet
that works for them in
contrast to what we're
doing to ourselves
in this country?
>>BIGELSEN: I look at them.
And I tell people, they eat
like crazy, drink like crazy,
smoke like crazy.
And they're still thin as rails.
But what goes on with them
is their day is a busy day.
But at the end of the day,
when they sit down for dinner
8 or 9 o'clock, they have
a two or three hour dinner.
They have their bottle of wine.
They kick back.
And they're not
thinking about the day.
The day is over.
And that's it.
>>REGINA: When I was spending
time there in France, now 20
years ago, they were still
having the two hour lunch
break.
Now I think a lot of the
American culture has seeped in
and they're not
closing up shop--
>>BIGELSEN: American
culture is seeping in,
and they're starting
to get a little bigger.
>>REGINA: --so much any more.
Yeah, a little bit.
And that's why I wondered
if those stats might
be changing with them.
But the other thing I noticed
is in conversation even,
you weren't talking
about your job.
You weren't talking about money.
Those just weren't things that
people were talking about.
They were talking about food
and art and their kids and films
and things like that,
or philosophy or books.
We weren't talking
about these kind
of mundane goals,
these competitive goals
that we do in America over
dinner, which should give you
an upset stomach
and stop digestion
all together these days.
So is it something just to do
with a more natural mindset?
>>BIGELSEN: It's a mindset.
Their mindsets are so different.
The United States mindset is,
he who has the most toys wins.
Everything was rushing around,
rushing around here and there.
Well, I remember a few
years ago and going back
to New York City.
And I haven't been
there in a long time.
And walking down the street,
you had to walk so fast.
I had to pull over to
the side because people
would have walked over me.
I had a pain in my side.
I'm like, good lord.
>>REGINA: I still
do that in New York.
Please go by.
Yeah, I just find the French
enigma fascinating myself.
And I just wanted to
know your opinion on it.
>>BIGELSEN: The day is over.
And they're just enjoying
the heck out of that day.
>>REGINA: Just
completely decompress,
talking with each other.
One friend I know, her
parents are in their 80s.
They still have a bottle
of wine every night
and sit and talk with
each other over dinner
for a couple of hours.
>>BIGELSEN: Yes.
>>REGINA: Beautiful.
OK, let's get on to Obamacare--
we only have about five minutes
left-- and what you see coming
down the pike as someone who
is doing alternative therapies.
Because I know there's
a lot of concern.
>>BIGELSEN: I'm very
frightened about Obamacare.
Obamacare gives them all the
goals that they've wanted.
>>REGINA: Which are?
>>BIGELSEN: Health
care, for number one,
is state's rights, OK?
The state of California has
MDs, osteopaths, chiropractors,
naturopaths, and acupuncturists.
Obama will pay for
only one of them.
That's totally anti-competitive.
>>REGINA: So it
overrides states' rights.
>>BIGELSEN: It overrides
state's rights.
They'll pay for
one of them only.
And now that gives
that one a monopoly.
>>REGINA: What's that do to
naturopaths in the 17 states
you said are licensing them?
What will happen to them?
Will they be part of the system?
>>BIGELSEN: No.
They still get certain--
not in Medicare system.
But they'll still get maybe
your local insurance company.
You're still licensed
in the state.
But basically, there's going
to be a complete control taken
over by the medical system.
>>REGINA: So what happens
to our choices then?
>>BIGELSEN: Our
choices are you can
go to a naturopath
or the acupuncturist
and pay out of your own
pocket, or you can go to the MD
and get your surgery and
get everything for free.
So that's what our
choices are now.
They're free.
You've got to pay for them.
So a lot of people,
with our economic crisis
and all of that
going on, that's what
they're starting to look for.
Go to where can I get
the stuff for free?
>>REGINA: What about HMOs
such as Kaiser Permanente
for example?
I mean, for years
and years and years,
they've been touting their
preventative care program.
And under some conditions,
you can get a reimbursement
on chiropractor.
How do you see this
affecting the HMOs.
I mean, aren't
they going to want
to have the clientele
still for people
who want to go
outside of the system
for these other alternatives?
>>BIGELSEN: Well, first of all,
with HMOs, any doctor that's
under an HMO is
working in the name HMO
because he can't make
the practice on himself.
>>REGINA: Because
of the cost of doing
business-- liability,
malpractice insurance.
>>BIGELSEN: All of that.
And it's just as well
working for the system.
Any doctor that's really
intriguing won't go to an HMO.
Because he's got his practice.
The guys that don't
have a good practice,
the HMO will guarantee
them something like that.
And what goes on in
HMOs today-- they've
broken and
compartmentalized the body.
The lung specialist doesn't
talk to the heart specialist.
>>REGINA: That's true.
>>BIGELSEN: OK?
Everyone has broken it down.
And I liken it to someone's
a right lung specialist
and someone's a left
lung specialist.
When I was a real doctor--
>>REGINA: Yeah, a real doctor--
>>BIGELSEN: --I
was an eye surgeon.
My hands were small.
My partner's hands were large.
I was the left eye surgeon.
He was the right eye surgeon.
>>REGINA: No.
>>BIGELSEN: Honest to God.
That's how narrow my field was.
I was the left eye
specialist, OK?
I was so crazy and bored
within a few years--
>>REGINA: That's interesting.
So the HMOs aren't going to--
they're not going to adapt?
Are they just going to become
more and more restricted
in terms of what they can offer?
>>BIGELSEN: To me, it's
the lowest quality of care
you can get.
They're breaking it
down into compartments.
You're not a compartment.
I take a drop of your blood.
I know everything that's
going in your whole body.
Your blood knows everything
in your whole body.
>>REGINA: Well, what
about blood tests,
when you go and you have
your blood panel done?
>>BIGELSEN: What they're
doing-- blood panels--
they're looking at
all the blood panels,
and they're telling you,
well, the liver's maybe
off a little bit.
This may be off a little bit.
You'd better take this
pill or go surgery OK?
They're not looking at what
the heck is really going on.
They're looking
at the blood test.
Plus they've never
looked at the blood live.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BIGELSEN: And
that's a big one.
>>REGINA: So you're talking
about a stagnant snapshot
in a day.
What if you're under stress
that morning or something?
You're blood's going
to look differently
than it might look if you were
relaxed later in the afternoon,
right?
>>BIGELSEN: Well,
totally, totally, yes.
>>REGINA: So they're
not always reliable.
So I just wanted to throw
that in because of your work
with live blood cells.
>>BIGELSEN: Yeah,
the pHs change.
The chemistry changes
a lot depending
on your mood and
stuff like that.
>>REGINA: So we only have a
couple minutes left, Harvey.
What do you see as
the greatest hope?
And what is your greatest
concern right now?
>>BIGELSEN: Well,
the greatest concern
is I've been going
against fighting
the monopoly and Obamacare.
And I don't think Obama
himself knows, really,
the reality of the
system controlling us.
We have a fascist control system
monitoring you completely.
I see it getting worse because
stem cells and a lot more
people are going to do a
quote, "alternative medicine."
So I see it getting
harshness, getting worse,
because you can't
step out of the box.
That's basically what it is.
And the AMA is losing ground
badly because the United
States, everyone
knows, is lousy.
>>REGINA: Right
>>BIGELSEN: OK?
But it's very frightening.
>>REGINA: Greatest hope?
Greatest hope?
Stem cells.
>>BIGELSEN: Stem
cell are the future.
And the biggest thing
is, look, you've
got to look at the
body another way.
Instead of looking at
stopping a problem,
how can I help the body
get what it needs done?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BIGELSEN: That's another way.
>>REGINA: It's a
whole living system,
an energetic information matrix.
>>BIGELSEN: You
should come in to me
and walk out feeling better
and performing better,
not taking a pill with all
these quote, "side effects"
and weaken you in there.
And watch out for that.
What out for that.
>>REGINA: So it
sounds like there's
some fabulous stuff
on the horizon.
And I want to
thank you for doing
your part all these to start
bringing some of this forward,
including stem cells.
You can learn more about
Harvey's personal journey
through his book, "Doctors
Are More Harmful Than Germs."
It's available
through amazon.com.
Meanwhile, for any alternative
medical practitioners among you
that would like to learn more
about blood through dark field
microscopy, you can contact
Harvey through his website
at drbigelsen.com That's
Bigelsen within an E--
B-I-G-E-L-S-E-N. In
case you missed it,
you'll also definitely want to
watch my first interview with
Harvey here on
Gaiam TV archives.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[BACKGROUND MUSIC]